You've seen this shape before. It's the
Arc de Triomphe in Paris, but this isn't
actually French. It comes from the Roman
Empire. Triumphal arches were built for
emperors to pass through after victory,
and they all follow the same idea. One
central arch, like the Arch of Titus,
sometimes with smaller arches on the
sides, like the Arch of Constantine.
Columns framing the openings and an
attic with an inscription on top, like
the Arch of Septimus Severus. And
reliefs telling a story, like those on
the Arch of Orange.
But here's the thing. This shape
disappeared in the Middle Ages, and then
it was revived in the Renaissance, and
now it's everywhere. In fountains, like
the Trevi Fountain.
In churches, like Mexico City's
cathedral. In city gates, like those in
Madrid. In facades.
Once you've seen it, you start seeing it
everywhere. Even in Paris, where
Napoleon tried to present himself as a
Roman emperor.
Subscribe for more incredible
architecture.